Welcome back to this discussion on nested statements and scope.
Now that you understand functions it's time to discuss scope when defining parameters outside and inside
of functions.
Python uses scope to understand what variable is being referred to inside of the function.
This is best explained through example.
So let's open up a Jupiter notebook and see what we're talking about.
Let's begin with a simple thought experiment.
Imagine I define the variable x and it will be a strain called outside.
Then I'm going to create a function called reports.
It's going to be just a function that takes no parameters and that inside this function I will define
a variable called X called inside and then I'm going to return the object x.
Now what do you expect the result to be when I call report.
Should it be the string outside or should it be the string inside.
Well if you run this you get back inside and intuitively.
Hopefully that makes sense since we can see that X was reassigned inside the report function.
However what do you think will happen when I call print x.
Will that be outside or inside.
And if you guessed inside this is where you're wrong.
In fact this re-assignment is only happening for this function.
It's not happening outside of the function.
The reason we don't see this effect take place is because of something called scope and the idea of
scope in your code is very important to understand in order to properly assign and called variable names
in simple terms.
The idea of scope can be described by three general rules.
The first is that name assignments will create or change local names by default and name references.
Search at most for scopes and the four scopes are local scope enclosing scope global scope and then
built in scope.
So this is also known as the L e.g. B rule.
So L for local E for inclosing G for global and B for built in.
So let's look at each level of these scopes to get an understanding of what we mean by them.
We'll first start off with an example of local scope.
So let's imagine I create that function again report and do this assignment.
This is known as local scope because it's local to this actual function.
So then if I say prints X and I call report I get back local.
Now let's look at an example of inclosing and remember that occurs when a function is enclosed inside
of another function.
And these are called nested functions.
You're not going to use them too much as you start out programming but it is possible so will creates
a variable called X and will say this is global level.
Then we will create a function called enclosing and it will say x is equal to in closing level and inside
of this inclosing function I'm going to put in another function.
And as I mentioned when you're starting off learning about Python you're not going to be doing functions
inside of functions too often.
This is really just to show you scope or the concept of scope.
So I will create a function called inside and then inside this function I will say print x and then
check out my indentation here I will call the inside function inside enclosing.
So now let's see what happens when I call in closing and before we run this let's imagine what's going
to happen here.
I start off with X being reassigned at the global level.
This is global level.
Then I have the inclosing function.
I re-assign X to be inclosing level.
Then I define this function inside of the inclosing function and we can see that basophils indentation.
And then I call inside inside the inclosing function.
So when I run this I get back inclosing level.
So this is the next level after a local inclosing.
So you can imagine that Python when you finally call a variable name all the way inside X it first looks
locally it says is this x variable defined somewhere locally inside this function.
If it doesn't find it it goes up a level.
In closing is this variable x.
The find somewhere inside this enclosing function.
And in fact it is inclosing level.
So that's what it chooses as the value of x.
Now let's go ahead and discover the global level.
So I'm going to delete this line that defines x and inclosing level and then the next level up to find
that X is the global level.
So if I rerun the cell to read the fine these two functions and then I run inclosing I get back.
This is global level.
So again we're going through the levels here local inclosing global and built in.
So we check out local first Python says Well where's the variable x defined.
It looks locally it can't find it.
So then it looks inside an enclosing function.
If there is one there is always an enclosing function and says well X isn't defined here.
And then it looks in the global namespace and global namespace is basically defined as having no indentation.
So it's not indented in any sort of function it goes all the way to the left.
And here we do find that X is a globally defined.
So that's what we choose as this global value.
Now there are built in so built in is one level of of global.
So if it still can't find it in a global assignment it assumes that it's going to be a built in function
or keyword.
And these are keywords such as Eliane for length some or list.
And that's why it's so important they don't reassign these basic terms that have built in functionality
in our part of Python because you start messing up with the scope of Python.
So that means if we can't find X at a local level inclosing level or global level Python is going to
try to see if it's a predefined built in parameter in its code in Python.
But if it's not then finally let's imagine that we say here we have y.
If we run this and then call unclosing it's going to say name error name y is not defined.
So that means it looked at all its levels it looked in local scope enclosing scope it looked at global
keywords and then finally checked everything that's built into Python and it still cannot find why.
So you end up getting this name error.
Why is not defined.
So now that we've seen the levels I quickly want to show one more example of global versus local because
those are really the main ones you're going to be having to deal with understanding global scope versus
local scope.
So I'm going to create X over here and say this is global outside then I will create a simple function
and the function takes an X and it's going to print X is and then we're going to format X there so Notice
what happens if I call my phunk I passen X it says X is global outside because X has already been defined
here globally.
However if later on INSIDE this function I say redefined inside my phunk and then I try to print outs
X again and I run my phunk it will say X is global outside but by the time X comes here Python is doing
that search all over again if first searches the local namespace and it can find here that X has been
defined locally.
So it chooses that it does that before it goes to search for an enclosing function or before searches
for a global assignment.
So that's really EJB local inclosing global and builtin.
It's just the order that Python searches for variable names.
So this allows Python to effectively search the namespace.
Now there may be an occasion where for whatever reason you specifically want to overwrite the global
variable inside of a function in order to do that you can actually use the global keyword for the variable
to indicate that you want to quote grab the global variable.
Keep in mind this is generally not recommended.
A should try your best to avoid this until you become more experienced with Python because it becomes
really easy to accidently create errors this way by overwriting variables in one part of your script
that affect the script in a completely different part.
So we're going to show you how you can use the global keyword but if you're just a beginner in Python
you should really avoid using it.
So here I see is global outside.
I print out X is blah blah.
I read the fine x and then I print out x.
So if I run the cell again.
Notice I get X's global outside.
Read the find in my func and if I were to type x again hopefully by now you've realized it will be global
outside because this reassignments is only in the scope of this function.
It doesn't actually have scope to global levels so this re-assignment only happens inside the scope
locally.
So what does that mean.
Let's imagine that I want to actually affect the global variable and overwrite it inside of my function.
So the way you can use the global keyword is before you ever use the variable inside of a function.
You're going to say global and that the name of the variable and that will tell Python go ahead and
reach out to find this variable in the global namespace and any changes you do locally will affect this
global variable.
However when you're using the global keyword you can't also have it be a parameter name inside your
function.
In fact if you try to run this code Python will warn you of that error.
So we run this and it says syntax error.
The name x is parameter and global and that just doesn't make sense of Python.
It can't have it both ways of dealing with a global variable x but also having some sort of parameter
being passed in the same name.
You'll get confused trying to figure out which one of these two to use.
So we'll go ahead and remove it here from the parameter in our function.
Just want to set the parameter instead what it's going to do.
Reaches out to the global namespace to find global outside it prints it out.
It re-assign it.
I remember re-assigning now the global x and then it's going to print it out again.
So let's run this.
And now Python has no problems.
And then when I call my phunk notice not passing anything anymore I get back.
X is global outside.
Read the fine inside of my function and now unlike last time when I say prints x x at a global level
has now been redefined to be this string and the only way that can happen is if you specifically call
the global keyword in front of that variable.
And as we previously mentioned this is really not recommended for beginners and in general is just poor
programming practice unless you have a very specific use case for it.
And you know very well why you're using global.
And again the reason for that is it becomes really easy to induce bugs somewhere else in your code because
you may have another function somewhere in your script that is making a grab to some global variable.
Assuming it's not being played around with.
Or reassigned in some other function.
Maybe hundreds of lines down so that's why you want to generally avoid this global keyword.
We show it to you now so you're aware of it.
In case you ever do need to use it.
But in general try to avoid it.
Instead use parameters that are passed in and if you do need to affect the global variable instead of
printing it you should do is return X and you're going to be returning the local x.
So let's see what happens there.
So we'll say X is global outside my phunk will pass an X here.
It's going to print format x.
It's going to redefine it and then it's going to return it.
And that's really why we want to do instead of using that global keyword.
So then when you run this and you pass an X and then have a result it goes ahead and says it prints
X is global outside but then your result is now redefined inside my function.
And this is a nice way of having it both ways because if you call X it's still global outside but you've
been able to adapt any changes you want to it and return it and save it as some sort of other variable.
All right that's it for nested statements in scope.
Hopefully this is clear to you as far as how to deal with namespace in Python.
We'll see you at the next lesson.
Recruit.